.\"t
.TH "INSTALL-NUMONIC" "1" "November 28, 2021" "Numonic v1.0.0" "Numonic Manual"
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation by default.
.SH NAME
.PP
install-numonic - installs numonic for the current operating system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[B]install-numonic\f[R] <\f[I]shell\f[R]> [\f[B]-d\f[R] | \f[B]--debug\f[R] ] [\f[B]-h\f[R] | \f[B]--help\f[R]]
[\f[B]-nd\f[R] | \f[B]--no-dependencies\f[R]] [\f[B]-q\f[R] | \f[B]--quiet\f[R]]
.PP
\f[B]install-numonic\f[R] \f[B]-s\f[R] <\f[I]shell\f[R]> [\f[B]-d\f[R] | \f[B]--debug\f[R] ] [\f[B]-h\f[R] |
\f[B]--help\f[R]] [\f[B]-nd\f[R] | \f[B]--no-dependencies\f[R]] [\f[B]-q\f[R] | \f[B]--quiet\f[R]]
.PP
\f[B]install-numonic\f[R] \f[B]--shell=\f[R]<\f[I]shell\f[R]> [\f[B]-d\f[R] | \f[B]--debug\f[R] ] [\f[B]-h\f[R] |
\f[B]--help\f[R]] [\f[B]-nd\f[R] | \f[B]--no-dependencies\f[R]] [\f[B]-q\f[R] | \f[B]--quiet\f[R]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This command is only available when cloning the repository or using \f[B]numonic-bootstrap\f[R](1) to acquire a version
of the numonic repository.
It is responsible for detecting the platform in use and performing a complete installation of numonic.
.SS WHAT HAPPENS
.PP
Numonic will install the prerequisites above (unless the \f[V]--no-dependencies\f[R] flag was set).
It will then extract shell scripts and supporting files (such as themes) to \f[V]$HOME/.local/numonic\f[R].
Finally, it will create or replace the following files in the \f[V]$HOME\f[R] directory:
.IP \[bu] 2
\&.pam_environment
.IP \[bu] 2
\&.profile
.IP \[bu] 2
\&.bash_profile
.IP \[bu] 2
\&.bashrc
.IP \[bu] 2
\&.zprofile
.IP \[bu] 2
\&.zshrc
.PP
If you have existing customizations within these startup environment files, they will need to be re-added to the user
bashrc and/or zshrc that numonic loads after it is initialized.
This may seem invasive (and it is), but experience has taught us that the vast majority of bugs we experience is
correlated to changes that developers (or other installers) make to these files with no regard for order.
In numonic, any user customizations will always be loaded \f[I]AFTER\f[R] numonic is fully initialized.
This ensures that these customizations always take precedence.
It also will survive upgrades to numonic.
.PP
Use the \f[B]edit-bashrc\f[R](1) and \f[B]edit-zshrc\f[R](1) commands to add these customizations.
.PP
We do create a backup (https://numonic.sh/commands/backup) of these files every time that numonic is installed or
upgraded.
One can also uninstall numonic and restore their environment back to the way it was before numonic was even introduced
via an \f[B]uninstall-numonic\f[R](1) command.
.SS PREREQUISITES
.PP
The latest available versions of the following prerequisites will be installed for your distribution by default.
If you wish to skip automatic installation, such as on systems where sudo permissions are not available, you can pass
the \f[B]--no-dependencies\f[R] flag to the bootstrap / installer.
Note that doing this will require suitable versions of these prerequisites exist.
The existence of the dependencies is verified but not versions.
This is done to ensure the greatest compatibility possible within a wide range of secure environments, such as virtual
desktops without internet access.
.PP
The install (install-aws, install-gcloud, install-azure, etc) scripts may have their own dependencies and will require
internet access.
Please consult the install (https://numonic.sh/commands/install) documentation for more information.
.SS REQUIRED PREREQUISITES
.PP
The following prerequisites are required (and verified) for installation to succeed.
.IP \[bu] 2
curl
.IP \[bu] 2
find (findutils)
.IP \[bu] 2
grep
.IP \[bu] 2
jq >= 1.4
.IP \[bu] 2
man (man-db)
.IP \[bu] 2
unzip
.IP \[bu] 2
a nerd font (https://www.nerdfonts.com) for your terminal program of choice \f[I]OR\f[R] use our
theme (https://numonic.sh/commands/theme)
.SS OPTIONAL PREREQUISITES
.PP
The following optional prerequisites are required for all features, namely external multi-factor authentication (MFA)
devices and git-* commands.
These commands are not verified if \f[B]--no-dependencies\f[R] is set during installation.
.IP \[bu] 2
git >= 2.0
.IP \[bu] 2
gpg >= 2.0
.SS OPERATING SYSTEMS
.PP
While numonic \f[I]should\f[R] run on macOS High Sierra or greater and all Linux distributions with either apt, dnf, or
yum, we only validate against a few of the more recent versions of popular ones.
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
l l.
T{
Name
T}@T{
Version
T}
_
T{
macOS
T}@T{
10.15 (Catalina) and 11.0 (Big Sur)
T}
T{
windows
T}@T{
10 and 11 (WSL 2)
T}
T{
ubuntu
T}@T{
20.04 (Focal) and 20.10 (Impish)
T}
T{
fedora
T}@T{
34 and 35
T}
T{
debian
T}@T{
10 (Buster) and 11 (Bullseye)
T}
T{
centos
T}@T{
8
T}
T{
amazon
T}@T{
Amazon Linux 2
T}
.TE
.RS
.PP
NOTE: We only test and support distributions that support both amd64 and arm64 (aarch64) as we have many customers
operating on both.
Not all capabilities are tested.
If you discover any bugs or wish to add your favorite distro to the validated list, please create an
issue (https://github.com/automotiveMastermind/numonic/issues/new/choose).
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.SS ARGUMENTS
.SS <shell>, -s <shell> --shell=<shell>
.PP
the name of the shell to use or install, which must be one of \[aq]sh\[aq], \[aq]bash\[aq], or \[aq]zsh\[aq]
.SS FLAGS
.SS -d, --debug
.PP
print the commands as they are executed (set -x)
.SS -h, --help
.PP
print this help information
.SS -nd, --no-dependencies
.PP
do not install any required dependencies as part of the installation of numonic if this is set, then the required
dependencies will be verified and the installation will fail if any dependency is unavailable
.SS -q, --quiet
.PP
suppress any output to stdout (any errors will still be printed)
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[B]update-numonic\f[R](1)
.SH AUTHORS
Deavon M. McCaffery
